---
layout: post
title:  "About Learing HTML and CSS"
date:   2015-03-23 18:00:00
categories: blog1
image: html.jpg
author: Yu Lu
---

Start to learn frontend web development. 

### The Books

Bought the most recommanded books - the on Amazon. It is well structured and with really good design. I believe these two books are more for designers than developers. It grasps me immediately. Take a few weeks going through and picking up the fundementals which I could hardly study in detail when doing projects. 

### MOOC

I roughly went through the class video of two Udacity courses on HTML, CSS and JS. I am a person who gains more effeciveness from books than videos. Taking the courses is more for 


### Tool & Resources

####Editor

Sublime remains as a quite popular editor for web developer. I started with it as well. But later I come across [Brackets](http://brackets.io/), the open source lightweight text editor by Adobe, and fall in love with it immediately. Sublime are considered powerful but requires quite amount of effort to get familiar. In addition, it is literally not free. Brackets instead has a less steeper learning curve. It also supports a lot of plugins. After I installed it, I have easily setup plugins for vim, markdown viewer, solarize theme which I normally get comfortable to work with. 

Another popular editor is [Atom](https://atom.io/) from Github.

####Framework



####CSS Preprocessor

####Design Resource


Less and Sass are two popular CSS preprocessor. 

### A Sample

To get more familiar with the tools, I start to study the code from others. A beautiful UI sample from [xx](). I am impressed that css can do so much. 
