---
layout: post
title:  "[DDIA Notes] Chapter 1 - Reliable, Scalable and Maintainable Applications "
date:   2022-04-30 02:00:00
categories: blog1
---

> The book 'Design data intensive application' is a really popular book recently years. Why? The reason is that it is relatively 'easy' for the inexperienced application software engineers to follow and get a glance of what distributed  world looks like. This is my second time to read this book. The first time reading was kind of a casual glance through and I gave up halfway. After I reflected on my [learning strategy](http://littlecheesecake.me/blog1/2022/04/25/effective-learning.html), I come up with a plan for me to read and digest this book.
>
> I will share the learning notes in a series of blogs. In each post, I will start with a brief [Chapter Summary](#chapter-summary), followed up a [Mind Map](#mind-map) that summarizes the main topics and its relations. The topics in the mind map are attached with a list of questions what can be answered by the knowledge in the book. The questions and answers are listed in plain text in the [Questions Summary](#questions-summary) section. In the [Highlighted Topics](#highlighted-topics) section, a few interesting topics in the chapter are picked up to explain in details. In the last [Extended Topics](#extended-topics) section, one or two topics that is not covered in detail in the book is briefly discussed and explored.
> 
>This is the first post of the series.


### Chapter Summary

This is the first chapter of the book. It explains the fundamental concepts of application design. In designing an application, we need to consider two aspects - functional requirement and non-functional requirement. Functional requirements vary case by case, however non-functional requirements can be generalized. In this Chapter, three most non-functional requirements of data application are discussed in detail - reliability, scalability and maintainability.

### Mind Map

<div class="mindmap-container">
	<iframe src="https://www.xmind.net/embed/xxJ2mH" width="900px" height="540px" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

### Questions Summary

##### 1. What does scalability of software mean?

The ability of the application to be able to handle increasing load without downgrading performance

##### 2. What does reliability mean for software? List four main descriptions

Generally means that the software is continuing to work correctly, even when things go wrong.
- able to perform the functions as required
- able to perform with the expected load
- tolerant user mistake (error handling)
- prevent unauthorized access (security)  

##### 3. What does an ‘elastic’ system mean?

A system that is able to automatically scale up or down by detecting the load change

##### 4. What does ‘tail latency’ mean and why is it important?

Tail latency refer to the high percentile response time (p95, p99 and p999). It is important as they affect the users’ experience of service, most often the more valuable customers’ experience as they are more likely to experience higher latency with large data volume or high throughput

##### 5. What does ‘fan-out’ mean in the software application context?

In the transaction processing system, we use it to describe the number of requests to other services that we need to make in order to serve one incoming request. (This is a term borrowed from electronic engineering, where it describes the number of logic gates inputs that are attached to another gate’s output. The output needs to supply enough current to drive all the attached inputs)

##### 6. What are the three major types of errors that cause reliability issues of a software?

- hardware fault: the failure of the computer hardware, it is always happening but the well-designed application normally should be able to cope with the single hardware instance failure
- human operation mistake: this is the leading cause of outages according to research
- software bugs or performance issues: it is much harder to be detected and prevented

##### 7. What are the three main design principles for a maintainable software?

- operability: easy for operation teams to keep the system running
- simplicity: easy for new engineers to understand and contribute
- evolvability: easy for engineers to make changes in the future

##### 8. What are the examples of new tools that do not fit exactly into the traditional data systems (databases, queues, caches)

- redis: a data stores that can be used as message queues
- kafka: a mq that has database-like durability

##### 9. What are the common functionalities of a data-intensive application?

- store the data for later retrieval (database)
- remember the result of expensive operation to speed up read (cache)
- allow users to search data by keyword and filters (search index)
- stream data to other process for it to be handled asynchronously (stream processing)
- periodically crunch a large amount of data (batch processing)

##### 10. What are some of the commonly used load parameters when describing the load of an application?

- query per second of web service (qps)
- ratio of reads to write (read/write ratio) of database
- hit rate on a cache (cache hit ratio)
- number of simultaneous users (concurrency / throughput)

##### 11. How to define the “percentiles” of response time?

- p50 (50th percentile) refers to the halfway point of the response time after sorting the response times from fastest to slowest. This means that half of the users experience the response time less than the p50 response time.
- similarly p95, p99, p999 refers to the 95%, 99%, and 99.95% percentile response time of the system

### Highlighted Topics

#### Twitter's timeline fan-out architecture

#### Percentiles of response times

### Extended Topics

#### A comprehensive list of non-functional requirement 

from [Building Evolutionary Architectures]()


